Dataset link: https://www.kaggle.com/AnalyzeBoston/crimes-in-boston
GitHub link: https://github.com/Albina-C/DH-Social-Good 

**Boston Crime Dataset Analysis**

With a rise in police brutality, and arguments to defund and even abolish the police, studying crime and policing is more important than ever. Fortunately, we have access to considerable data on crime in major U.S. cities; specifically, the Boston Police Department (BPD) provides detailed crime incident reports that include information about crimes responded to in Boston, Massachusetts. The BPD dataset we have chosen from Kaggle, titled “Crimes in Boston,” includes extensive details on individual crimes such as the time, location, and type of crime responded to. 

Like many cities in America, Boston has experienced a great reduction in crime rate since the 1990s. The drop in homicide cases from 152 to 31 during the period is often referred to as the “Boston Miracle.” Despite that, entering the new millennium, the city is facing new challenges for more effective policing. Funding for the Boston Police Department reached 414 million in 2021, exerting a heavy financial burden on the government budget. Meanwhile, though the crime rates remain low in general, it fluctuates a lot from year to year. 

Knowing this, and having access to a highly useful dataset on crime in Boston, we want to detect any crime patterns that could be used as evidence for changes in policing. In developing our project, we still noticed some invalid records (i.e., certain locations are recorded as NaN or (-1,-1)) in the dataset. **We want to investigate how rows that contain NaN values in the location column differ from the overall trend of the entire dataset, by analyzing the correlation between the invalid records with other variables, such as the date/time of crimes, the types of crimes, and offense descriptions.** While working with the data, we plan to visualize the trends we find, presenting our data in a way that shows clear relationships between a crime’s defining characteristics. 

Understanding trends in crime is absolutely crucial to changing policy and allocating resources more effectively. We hope that this introductory data analysis will educate us on how to work with a large dataset and find relationships between its variables, and show how we can use data to make concrete conclusions about an aspect of society.